Manialinks (#4)
EvoTM/EvoSC-sharp-documentation: docs/development/modules/manialinks/actions.md

# Manialink Actions
To communicate user actions from manialinks to the controller, EvoSC make use of the page action callbacks from XMLRPC which can be triggered through various ways in manialinks.

## Routing
Every manialink action has a so called "route" to call which triggers these actions. The routing system is very similar to HTTP API routing.

The difference however, is that routes does not start with a slash. For example, a simple route would be `myController/myAction`

> You can also pass parameters dynamic parameters to the route, which can be picked up by the action method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As with API routes, you could also pass dynamic parameters using the route, which can then be picked up by the action method. An example could be `myController/myAction/{myParam}` which has a parameter `myParam`. This allows you to pass the number through the route like `myController/myAction/1`, `myController/myAction/2`, `myController/myAction/342` etc. The controller also allows you to define more complex combinations of static route components an parameters like `a/{b}/c/{d}/{e}`.
```

- **Route with parameters in arbitrary positions** such as `a/{b}/c/{d}`
- **Root routes** like `a`, `b`, `myroute` etc.
- Allowed characters in the route components are alphanumeric (`0-9`, `a-z`, `A-Z`), `_` and `.`

### Disallowed route patterns
Routing does have certain restrictions which helps with consistency and avoids certain mistakes and errors such as:

- **Ambiguous routes** such as defining both `a/b` and `a/{b}`
- **Two equal routes for different actions**
- **Empty routes**
- **Routes starting with a slash** `/`
- **Route overloading**. For example `a/{b}` with `{b}` being a string and `a/{c}` with `{c}` being an integer.
- The allowed characters in route components are restricted to alphanumeric and `_` and `.`. The forward slash `/` is used as a separator in routes.

### Defining Actions
Actions are defined within a manialink controller. Head over to [Manialink Controllers](controllers.md) to see how this is done.

## Form Actions
Some manlialink tags such as label or quad exposes an `action` attribute. This makes the UI element clickable which calls the page action callback. We can call this a *form action* because it works similar to HTML forms.

> You can also define `<entry>` tags which are input elements where the user can write things in like text, a number, a password etc. You also have other input elements like `<textedit>`. What is common about these elements is that the values which the user inserts into these elements gets sent along with the action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also define `<entry>` tags which are input elements where the user can input things like text, a number, a password etc. You also have other input elements like `<textedit>` which allows you to input multiline text. The common characteristic of these elements is that the values which the user inserts into these elements will get sent along with the action.
```
